good evening i'm martha raddatz from abc
news and i'm anderson cooper from cnn we
want to welcome you to washington
university in st louis for the second
presidential debate between hillary
clinton and donald trump sponsored by
the commission on presidential debates
tonight's debate is a town hall format
which gives voters a chance to directly
ask the candidates questions martha and
i will ask follow-up questions but the
night really belongs to the people in
this room and to people across the
country who have submitted questions
online the people you see on this stage
were chosen by the gallup organization
they are all from the st louis area and
told gallup they haven't committed to a
candidate each of them came here with
questions they want to ask and we saw
those questions for the first time this
morning anderson and i and our team from
abc and cnn are the only ones who have
seen them both candidates will have two
minutes to answer each audience and
online question we hope to get to as
many questions as we can so we've asked
the audience here not to slow things
down with any applause except for now
ladies and gentlemen the republican
nominee for president donald j trump and
the democratic nominee for president
hillary clinton
thank you very much for being here we're
going to begin with a question from one
of the members in our town hall each of
you will have two minutes to respond to
this question secretary clinton you won
the coin toss so you'll go first our
first question comes from patrice brach
the trees thank you and good evening
the last presidential debate could have
been rated as ma mature audiences per tv
parental guidelines knowing that
educators designed viewing the
presidential debates as students
homework do you feel you're modeling
appropriate and positive behavior for
today's youth well thank you are you a
teacher yes i think that that's a very
good question because i've heard from
lots of teachers and parents about some
of their concerns about some of the
things that are being said and done in
this campaign and i think it is very
important for us to make clear to our
children that our country really is
great because we're good and we are
going to respect one another lift each
other up we are going to be looking for
ways to celebrate our diversity and we
are going to try to reach out to every
boy and girl as well as every adult to
bring them in to working on behalf of
our country i have a very positive and
optimistic view about what we can do
together that's why the slogan of my
campaign is stronger together because i
think if we work together if we overcome
the divisive nough stats sometimes sets
americans against one another and
instead we make some big goals and i've
set forth some big goals getting the
economy to work for everyone not just
those at the top making sure that we
have the best education system from
preschool through college and making it
affordable and so much else if we set
those goals and we go together to try to
achieve them there's nothing in my
opinion that america can't do so that's
why i hope that we will come together in
this campaign obviously i'm hoping to
earn your vote
i'm hoping to be elected in november and
i can promise you i will work with every
american i want to be the president for
all americans regardless of your
political beliefs where you come from
what you look like your religion i want
us to heal our country and bring it
together because that's i think the best
way for us to get the future that our
children and our grandchildren deserve
secretary clinton thank you mr trump
you have two minutes well i actually
agree with that i agree with everything
she said i began this campaign because i
was so tired of seeing such foolish
things happen to our country this is a
great country this is a great land i've
gotten to know the people of the country
over the last year and a half that i've
been doing this as a politician i cannot
believe i'm saying that about myself but
i guess i have been a politician and my
whole concept was to make america great
again when i watch the deals being made
when i watch what's happening with some
horrible things like obamacare were your
health insurance and health care is
going up by numbers that are
astronomical 68 fifty-nine percent
seventy one percent when i look at the
iran deal and how bad a deal it is for
us it's a one sided transaction where
we're giving back a hundred and fifty
billion dollars to a terrorist state
really the number one terrorist state
we've made them a strong country from
really a very weak country just three
years ago when i look at all of the
things that i see in all of the
potential that our country has we have
such tremendous potential whether it's
in business and trade where we're doing
so badly last year we had an almost 800
billion dollar trade deficit in other
words trading with other countries we
had an 800 billion dollar deficit it's
hard to believe
inconceivable you say who's making these
deals we're gonna make great trade deals
we're gonna have a strong border we're
gonna bring back a law and order just
policeman was shot two killed and this
is happening on a weekly basis we have
to bring back respect to law enforcement
at the same time we have to take care of
people in all sides we need justice but
i want to do things that haven't been
done including fixing and making our
inner cities better for the
african-american citizens that are so
great and for the latinos hispanics and
i look forward to doing it's called to
make america great again thank you mr
truong the question from patrice was
about are you both modeling positive
inappropriate behaviors for today's
youth we received a lot of questions
online mr trump about the tape that was
released on fridays you can imagine you
called what you said locker room banter
you described kissing women without
consent grabbing their genitals that is
sexual assault you bragged that you have
sexually assaulted women do you
understand that i didn't say that at all
i don't think you understood what was
that this was locker room talk i'm not
proud of it i apologize to my family i
apologized to the american people
certainly i'm not proud of it but this
is locker room talk you know when we
have a world where you have isis
chopping off heads where you have and
frankly drowning people in steel cages
where you have wars and and horrible
horrible sites all over where you have
so many bad things happening this is
like medieval times we haven't seen
anything like this the carnage all over
the world and they look and they see can
you imagine the people that are frankly
doing so well against us with isis and
they look at our country and they see
what's going on yes i'm very embarrassed
by it i hate it but it's locker room
talk and it's one of those things i will
knock the hell out of isis we're going
to defeat isis isis happened a number of
years ago in a vacuum that was left
so because of bad judgment and i will
tell you i will take care of isis drama
get on to much more important things and
much bigger things just for the record
though are you saying that what you said
on that bus 11 years ago that you did
not actually kiss women without consent
or grope women without concise great
respect for women nobody has more
respect for women than i do
so for the record you're saying you
never did things that frankly you you
hear these things i said and i was
embarrassed by it but i have tremendous
respect for women have you ever done
have respect for me and i will tell you
no i have not and i will tell you that
i'm going to make our country safe we're
going to have borders in our country
which we don't have now people are
pouring into our country and they're
coming in from the middle east and other
places we're gonna make america safe
again we're gonna make america great
again but we're gonna make america safer
get and i'm gonna make america wealthy
again because if you don't do that it
just ends it sounds harsh to say but we
have to build up the wealth of language
and rope now other nations are taking
our jobs and they're taking our wealth
thank you mister i want to talk about
collections you want to respond well
like everyone else i've spent a lot of
time thinking over the last 48 hours
about what we heard and saw you know
with prior republican nominees for
president i disagreed with them politics
policies principles but i never
questioned their fitness to serve donald
trump is different i said starting back
in june that he was not fit to be
president and commander-in-chief and
many republicans and independents have
said the same thing what we all saw and
heard on friday was donald talking about
women what he thinks about women what he
does to women and he has said that the
video doesn't represent who he is but i
think it's clear to anyone who heard it
that it represents exactly who he is
because we've seen this throughout the
campaign we have seen him insult women
we've seen him rape women on their
appearance ranking them from 1 to 10
we've seen him embarrass women on tv and
on twitter
we saw him after the first debate spend
nearly a week denigrating a former miss
universe in the harshest most personal
terms so yes this is who donald trump is
but it's not only women and it's not
only this video that raises questions
about his fitness to be our president
because he has also targeted immigrants
african americans latinos people with
disabilities pows muslims and so many
others so this is who donald trump is
and the question for us the question our
country must answer is that this is not
who we are that's why to go back to your
question i want to send a message we all
should to every boy and girl and indeed
to the entire world that america already
is great but we are great because we are
good and we will respect one another and
we will work with one another and we
will celebrate our diversity these are
very important values to me because this
is the america that i know and love and
i can pledge to you tonight that this is
the america that i will serve if i'm so
fortunate enough to become your
president and we want to get to some
questions to this i assume i am it's
just words folks it's just words those
words i've been hearing them for many
i heard them when they were running for
the senate in new york where hillary was
going to bring back jobs to upstate new
york and she failed i've heard them
where hillary is constantly talking
about the inner cities of our country
which are a disaster education-wise
job-wise safety wise in every way
possible i'm gonna help the
african-americans i'm gonna help the
latinos hispanics i am going to help but
the inner cities she's done a terrible
job for the african-americans she wants
their vote and she does nothing and then
she comes back four years later we saw
that firsthand when she was the united
states senator she campaigned i want to
get to audience questions and online
so she's allowed to do that but i'm not
allowed to you're going to have you're
going to get to respond right now sounds
this tape is generating intense interest
in just 48 hours it's become the single
most talked-about story of the entire
2016 election on facebook with millions
and millions of people discussing it on
the social network as we said a moment
ago we do want to bring in questions
from voters around the country via
social media and our first stays on this
topic jeff from ohio asks on facebook
trump says the campaign has changed him
when did that happen
so mr trump let me add to that when you
walked off that bus at age 59 were you a
different man or did that behavior
continue until just recently and you
have two minutes for told you that was
locker room talk i'm not proud of it i
am a person who has great respect for
people from my family for the people of
this country and certainly i'm not proud
of it but that was something that
happened if you look at bill clinton far
worse minor words and his was action his
words what he's done to women there's
never been anybody in the history of
politics in this nation that's been so
abusive to women so you can say any way
you want to say it but bill clinton was
abusive to women hillary clinton
attacked those same women and attacked
them viciously four of them here tonight
one of the women who is a wonderful
woman at 12 years old was raped at 12
her client she represented got him off
and she's seen laughing on two separate
occasions laughing at the girl who was
cathy shelton that young woman is here
with us tonight so don't tell me about
words i am absolutely i apologize for
those words but it is things that people
say but what president clinton did he
was impeached he lost his license to
practice law he had to pay an 850
thousand dollar fine to one of the women
paula jones who's also here tonight and
i will tell you that when hillary brings
up a point like that and she talks about
words that i said eleven years ago i
think it's disgraceful and i think she
should be ashamed of herself if you want
to know the truth secretary clinton you
have two minutes well first let me start
by saying that so much of what he's just
said is not right but he gets to run his
campaign any way he chooses he gets to
decide what he wants to talk about
instead of answering people's questions
talking about our agenda laying out the
plans that we have that we think can
make a better life in a better country
that's his choice when i hear something
like that i am reminded of what my
friend michelle obama advised us all
when they go low you go high
look if this were just about one video
maybe what he's saying tonight would be
understandable but everyone can draw
their own conclusions at this point
about whether or not the man in the
video or the man on the stage respects
women but he never apologizes for
anything to anyone he never apologized
to mr and mrs khan the gold star
family whose son captain khan died in
the line of duty in iraq and donald
insulted and attacked them for weeks
over their religion he never apologized
to the distinguished federal judge who
was born in indiana but donald said he
couldn't be trusted to be a judge
because his parents were quote mexican
he never apologized to the reporter that
he mimicked and mocked on national
television and our children were
watching and he never apologized for the
racist lie that president obama was not
born in the united states of america he
owes the president an apology
he owes our country an apology and he
needs to take responsibility for his
actions and his words well you owe the
president an apology because as you know
very well your campaign sidney
blumenthal he's another real winner that
you have and he's the one that got this
started along with your campaign manager
and they were on television just two
weeks ago she was saying exactly that so
you really owe him an apology you're the
one that sent the pictures around your
campaign sent the pictures around with
president obama in a certain garb that
was long before i was ever involved so
you actually owe an apology
and number two michelle obama i've
gotten to see the commercials that they
did on you and i've gotten to see some
of the most vicious commercials i've
ever seen of michelle obama talking
about you hillary so you talk about
friend go
i can take a look at those commercials a
race where you lost fair and square
unlike the bernie sanders race where you
won but not fair and square in my
opinion and all you have to do is take a
look at wikileaks and just see what they
said about bernie sanders and see what
debra wasserman schultz had in mind
because bernie sanders between
super-delegates and debra wasserman
schultz he never had a chance and i was
so surprised to see him sign on with the
devil but when you talk about apology i
think the one that you should really be
apologizing for and the thing that you
should be apologizing for are the 33,000
emails that you deleted and that you
acid-washed and then the two boxes of
emails and other things last week that
were taken from an office and are now
missing and i'll tell you what i didn't
think i'd say this but i'm going to say
it and i hate to say it but if i win i
am going to instruct my attorney general
to get a special prosecutor to look into
your situation because there has never
been so many lies so much deception
there has never been anything like it
and we're gonna have a special
prosecutor when i speak i go out and
speak the people of this country are
furious in my opinion the people that
have been long-term workers at the fbi
are furious there has never been
anything like this where emails and you
get a subpoena you get a subpoena and
after getting the subpoena you delete
33,000 emails and then you acid washing
or bleach him as you would save her
expensive process so we're gonna get a
special prosecutor and we're gonna look
into it because you know what people
have been their lives have been
destroyed for doing one fifth of what
you've done and it's a disgrace and
honestly you ought to be ashamed
everything he just said is absolutely
false but i'm not surprised in the first
debate that it would be impossible to be
fact-checking donald all the time i'd
never get to talk about anything i want
to do
and how we're going to really make lives
better for people so once again go to
hillary clinton comm we have literally
trump you can fact check them fat check
fact check you in real time last time at
the first debate we had millions of
people fact-checking so i expect we'll
have millions more fact-checking
because you know it is it's just awfully
good that someone with the temperament
of donald trump is not in charge of the
law in our country because you'd be in
secretary clinton we want to remind the
audience to please not talk out loud
please do not applaud you're just
wasting time and secretary clinton i do
want to follow up on emails you've said
your handling of your emails was a
mistake you disagreed with director fbi
director james comey calling your
handling of classified information quote
extremely careless the fbi said that
there were a hundred and ten classified
emails that were exchanged eight of
which were top secret and that it was
possible hostile actors did gain access
to those emails you don't call that
extremely careless well martha first let
me say and i've said it before but i'll
repeat it because i want everyone to
hear it that was a mistake
and i take responsibility for using a
personal email account obviously if i
were to do it over again i would not i'm
not making any excuses
it was a mistake and i am very sorry
about that but i think it's also
important to point out where there are
some misleading
accusations from critics and others
after a year-long investigation
there is no evidence that anyone hacked
the server i was using and there is no
evidence that anyone can point to at all
anyone who says otherwise has no basis
that any classified material ended up in
the wrong hands i take classified
materials very seriously and always have
when i was on the senate armed services
committee i was privy to a lot of
classified material obviously as
terry of state i had some of the most
important secrets that we possess such
as going after bin laden so i am very
committed to taking classified
information seriously and as i said
there is no evidence that any classified
information ended up in the wrong hands
and yet she didn't know the word the
letter c on a document right she didn't
even know what that word what that
letter meant you know it's amazing i'm
watching hillary go over facts and she's
going after fact after fact and she's
lying again
because she said she you know what she
did with the emails was fine you think
it was fine to delete 33,000 emails i
don't think so
she said the 33,000 emails had to do
with her daughter's wedding number one
and a yoga class well maybe we'll give
three or three or four or five or
something 33,000 emails deleted and now
she's saying there wasn't anything wrong
and more importantly that was after
getting a subpoena that wasn't before
that was after she got it from the
united states congress and i'll be
honest i am so disappointed in
congressmen including republicans for
allowing this to happen our justice
department where her husband goes onto
the back of an aeroplane for 39 minutes
talks to the attorney general
days before rulings got to be made on
her case but for you to say that there
was nothing wrong with you deleting
39,000 emails again you should be
ashamed of yourself what you did and
this is after getting a subpoena from
the united states to move on let alone
after getting a subpoena from the united
states after clinton you can respond
that we have to move on to an audience
question look it's just not true and so
please so you didn't delete him allowing
a response personal emails not 3,000
yeah well we turned over 35,000 so oh
yeah please allow her to respond she
didn't talk while you talked yes that's
true i didn't debate and i've got to try
not to in this debate because i'd like
to get to the questions that the people
here tonight to talk to us about and get
off this question okay donald i know
you're into big diversion tonight
anything to avoid talking about your
campaign and the way it's exploding and
the way republicans are leaving you but
that people care about tonight let's get
to their question we have a question
here from ken carper whit's there's a
question about health care ken i'd like
to know anderson why aren't you bringing
up the emails i'd like to know why
aren't you know it hasn't it has it and
it hasn't been finished at all
ken carports says the question it's nice
to one on three thank you affordable
care act known as obamacare it is not
affordable premiums have gone up
deductibles have gone up co-pays have
gone up prescriptions have gone up and
the coverage has gone down what will you
do to bring the cost down and make
coverage better because you started out
the last one to the audience he wants to
start it can start no go ahead donald no
i'm a gentleman hillary go ahead
secretary clinton well i think donald
was about to say he's going to solve it
by repealing it and getting rid of the
affordable care act and i'm gonna fix it
because i agree with you premiums have
gotten too high co-pays deductibles
prescription drug costs and i've laid
out a series of actions that we can take
to try to get those costs down but
here's what i don't want people to
forget when we're talking about reining
in the cost which has to be the highest
priority of the next president when the
affordable care act passed it wasn't
just that twenty million people got
insurance who didn't have it before but
that in and of itself was a good thing i
meet these people all the time and they
tell me what a difference having that
insurance meant to them and their
families but everybody else the hundred
and seventy million of us who get health
insurance through our employers got big
benefits number one insurance companies
can't deny you coverage because of a
pre-existing condition number two no
lifetime limits which is a big deal if
you have serious health problems
number three women can't be charged more
than men for our health insurance which
is the way it used to be before the
affordable care act number four if
you're under 26 and your parents have a
policy you can be on that policy until
the age of 26 something that didn't
happen before so i want very much to
save what works and is good about the
affordable care act but we've got to get
cost down we've got to provide some
additional help to small businesses so
that they can afford to provide health
insurance but if we repeal it as donald
has proposed and start over again
all of those benefits i just mentioned
are lost to everybody not just people
who get their health insurance on the
exchange and then we would have to start
all over again right now we are 90
health insurance coverage that's the
highest we've ever been in our country
to get to a hundred percent but get
costs down and keep quality up mr trump
you have two minutes it is such a great
question and it's maybe the question i
get almost more than anything else
outside of defense obamacare is a
disaster you know it we all know it it's
going up at numbers that nobody has ever
seen worldwide it's nobody's ever seen
numbers like this for health care it's
only getting worse in 17 it implodes by
itself their method of fixing it is to
go back and ask congress for more money
more and more money we have right now
almost 20 trillion dollars in debt
obamacare will never work it's very bad
very bad health insurance far too
expensive and not only expensive for the
person that has it unbelievably
expensive for our country it's going to
be one of the biggest line items very
shortly we have to repeal it and replace
it with something absolutely much less
expensive and something that works where
your plan can actually be tailored we
have to get rid of the lines around the
state artificial lines
where we stop insurance companies from
coming in and competing because they
wanted president obama and whoever was
working on it they want to leave those
lines because that gives the insurance
companies essentially monopolies we want
competition you will have the finest
health care plan there is she wants to
go to a single-payer plan which would be
a disaster somewhat similar to canada
and if you ever noticed the canadians
when they need a big operation when
something happens they come into the
united states in many cases because
their their system is so slow it's it's
catastrophic in certain ways but she
wants to go to single-payer which means
the government basically rules
everything hillary clinton has been
after this for years obamacare was the
first step
obamacare is a total disaster and not
only are your rates going up by numbers
that nobody's ever believed but your
deductibles are going up so that unless
you get hit by a truck you're never
going to be able to use it disasters
plant and it has to be repealed and
secretary clinton let me follow up with
you your husband called obamacare quote
the craziest thing in the world saying
that small business owners are getting
killed as premiums double coverage is
cut in half
was he mistaken or was his mistake
simply telling the truth no i mean he
clarified what he meant and it's very
clear look we are in a situation in our
country where if we were to start all
over again we might come up with a
different system but we have an
employer-based system that's where the
vast majority of people get their health
care and the affordable care act was
meant to try to fill the gap between
people who were too poor and couldn't
put together any resources to afford
health care namely people on medicaid
obviously medicare which is a
single-payer system which takes care of
our elderly and does a great job doing
it by the way and then all the people
who were employed but people who were
working but didn't have the money to
afford insurance and didn't have anybody
an employ or anybody else to help them
that was the the slot that the obamacare
approach was to take and like i say 20
million people
of health insurance so if we just rip it
up and throw it away what donald's not
telling you is we just turn it back to
the insurance companies the way it used
to be and that means the insurance
companies get to do pretty much whatever
they want including saying look i'm
sorry you've got diabetes you had cancer
your child has a thumbs up you may not
be able to have insurance because you
can't afford it so let's fix what's
broken about it but let's not throw it
away and give it all back to the
insurance companies and let me follow up
with you mister that's not going to
trump one before everything's broken
about it everything number two bernie
sanders said that hillary clinton has
very bad judgment this is a perfect
example of a truck from pave obamacare
which is you've said you want to end
here you've said you want to end
obamacare you've also said you want to
make coverage accessible for people with
pre-existing conditions how do you force
insurance companies to do that if you're
no longer mandating that everywhere
until you're gonna have plans what does
that mean well i'll tell you what it
means you're gonna have plans that are
so good because we're gonna have so much
competition in the insurance industry
once we break out once we break out the
lines and allow the competition to come
by keeping those lines the boundary
lines around each state and it was
almost done until just very toward the
end of the passage of obamacare which by
the way was a fraud you know that
because jonathan gruber the architect of
obamacare was said he said it was a
great lie was a big lie president obama
said you keep your doctor you keep your
plan the whole thing was a fraud and it
doesn't work but when we get rid of
those lines you have competition and we
will be able to keep pre-existing we'll
also be able to help people that can't
get don't have money because we are
going to have people protect it and
republicans feel this way believe it or
not and strongly this way we're going to
block grant into the states we're going
to block grant into medicaid in the
so that we will be able to take care of
people without the necessary funds to
take care of themselves thank you mister
we now go to gore bahaman with a
question for both candidates
alright there are 3.3 million muslims in
the united states and i'm one of them
you've mentioned working with muslim
nations but with islamophobia on the
rise how will you help people like me
deal with the consequences of being
labeled as a threat to the country after
the election is over mr trump here
first well you're right about
islamophobia and that's a shame but one
thing we have to do is we have to make
sure that because there is a problem i
mean whether we like it or not and we
can be very politically correct but
whether we like it or not there is a
problem and we have to be sure that
muslims come in and report when they see
something going on when they see hatred
going on they have to report it as an
example in san bernardino many people
saw the bombs all over the apartment of
the two people that killed 14 and
wounded many many people horribly
wounded they'll never be the same
muslims have to report the problems when
they say them and you know there's
always a reason for everything if they
don't do that it's a very difficult
situation for our country because you
look at orlando and you look at san
bernardino and you look at the world
trade center go outside you look at
paris look at that horrible these are
radical islamic terrorists and she won't
even mention the word and nor will
president obama he won't use the term
radical islamic terrorism now to solve a
problem you have to be able to state
what the problem is or at least say the
name she won't say the name and
president obama won't say the name but
the name is there it's radical islamic
terror and before you solve it you have
to say the name
secretary clinton well thank you for
asking your question and i've heard this
question from a lot of muslim americans
across our country because unfortunately
there's been a lot of very divisive dark
things said about muslims and even
someone like captain khan the young man
who sacrificed himself defending our
country in the united states
army has been subject to attack by
donald i want to say just a couple of
things first we've had muslims in
america since george washington and
we've had many successful muslims we
just lost a particularly well-known one
with muhammad ali my vision of america
is an america where everyone has a place
if you're willing to work hard you do
your part you contribute to the
community that's what america is that's
what we want america to be for our
children and our grandchildren it's also
very short-sighted and even dangerous to
be engaging in the kind of demagogic
rhetoric that donald has about muslims
we need american muslims to be part of
our eyes and ears on our front lines
i've worked with a lot of different
muslim groups around america i've met
with a lot of them and i've heard how
important it is for them to feel that
they are wanted and included and part of
our country part of our homeland
security and that's what i want to see
it's also important
i intend to defeat isis to do so in a
coalition with majority muslim nations
right now a lot of those nations are
hearing what donald says and wondering
why should we cooperate with the
americans and this is a gift to isis and
the terrorists violent jihadist
terrorists we are not at war with islam
and it is a mistake and it plays into
the hands of the terrorists to act as
though we are so i want a country where
citizens like you and your family are
just as welcome as anyone else thank you
secretary clinton mr trump in december
you said this donald j trump is calling
for a total and complete shutdown of
muslims entering the united states until
our country's representatives can figure
out what the hell is going on we have no
choice we have no choice your running
mate said this week that the muslim ban
is no longer your position is that
correct and if it is was it a mistake
to have a religious test first of all
captain kahn is an american hero and if
i were president at that time he would
be alive today because unlike her who
voted for the war without knowing what
she was doing i would not have had our
people in iraq iraq was a disaster so he
would have been alive today the muslim
ban is something that in some form has
morphed into a extreme vetting from
certain areas of the world hillary
clinton wants to allow no answer the
question all the time what are you a
dream please explain whether or not the
muslim band still stands it's called
extreme vetting we are going to areas
like syria where they're coming in by
the tens of thousands because of barack
obama and hillary clinton wants to allow
a five hundred and fifty percent
increase over obama people are coming
into our country like we have no idea
who they are where they're from what
their feelings about our country is and
she wants five hundred and fifty percent
more there's going to be the great
trojan horse of all time we have enough
problems in this country i believe in
building safe zones i will leave in
having other people pay for them as an
example the gulf states who are not
carrying their weight but they have
nothing but money and take care of
people but i don't want to have with all
the problems this country has and all of
the problems that you see going on
hundreds of thousands of people coming
in from syria when we know nothing about
them we know nothing about their values
and we know nothing about their love for
our country and secretary clinton let me
ask you about that because you have
asked for an increase from 10 to 65,000
syrian refugees we know you want tougher
vetting that's not a perfect system so
why take the risk of having those
refugees come into the country well
first of all i will not let anyone into
our country that i think poses a risk to
but there are a lot of refugees women
and children think of that picture we
all saw of that four year old boy with
the blood on his forehead because he'd
been bombed by the russian and syrian
air forces there are children suffering
in this catastrophic war largely i
believe because of russian aggression
and we need to do our part we by no
means are carrying anywhere near the
load that europe and others are but we
will have vetting that is as tough as it
needs to be from our professionals our
intelligence experts and others but it
is important for us as a policy you know
not to say as donald has said we're
gonna ban people based on a religion how
do you do that we are a country founded
on religious freedom and liberty how do
we do what he has advocated without
causing great distress within our own
country are we going to have religious
tests when people fly into our country
and how do we expect to be able to
implement those so i thought that what
he said was extremely unwise and even
dangerous and indeed you can look at the
propaganda on a lot of the terrorist
sites and what donald trump says about
muslims is used to recruit fighters
because they want to create a war
between us and the final thing i would
say this is the tenth or twelfth time
that he's denied being for the war in
iraq we have it on tape the entire press
corps has looked at it it's been
debunked but it never stops him from
saying whatever he was so pleased and
you can see it i was against the war in
iraq has not been debunked and you voted
for it and you shouldn't have well i
just i'd like
move on to his online questions she just
went about 25 seconds over her time to
respond to this place very quickly
hillary clinton in terms of having
people come into our country we have
many criminal illegal aliens when we
want to send them back to their country
their country says we don't want them in
some cases they're murderers drug lords
drug problems and they don't wanna and
hillary clinton when she was secretary
of state said that's okay we can't force
it into their country let me tell you
i'm gonna force them right back into
that country their murders and some very
bad people and i will tell you very
strongly when bernie sanders said she
had bad judgment she has really bad
judgment because we are letting people
into this country that are gonna cause
problems and crime like you've never
we're also letting drugs pour through
our southern border at a record clip at
a record clip and it shouldn't be
allowed to happen
i just endorsed me they've never
endorsed the presidential candidate the
border patrol agents 16,500 just
recently endorsed me and they endorsed
me because i understand the border she
doesn't she wants amnesty for everybody
come right in come right over
it's a horrible thing she's doing she's
got bad judgment and honestly so bad
that she should never be president of
the united states that i can take mr
trump i want to move on this next
question comes from the public through
the bipartisan open debate coalition's
online forum where americans submitted
questions that generated millions of
votes this question involves wikileaks
release of purported excerpts of
secretary clinton's paid speeches which
she has refused to release and one line
in particular in which you secretary
clinton purportedly say you need both
the public and private position on
certain issues so two from virginia asks
is it okay for politicians to be
two-faced is it acceptable for a
politician to have a private stance on
secretary clinton well your two minutes
right as i recall that was something i
said about abraham lincoln
after having seen the wonderful steven
spielberg movie called lincoln it was a
master class watching president lincoln
get the congress to approve the
thirteenth amendment
it was principled and it was strategic
and i was making the point that it is
hard sometimes to get the congress to do
what you want to do and you have to keep
working at it and yes president lincoln
was trying to convince some people he
use some arguments convincing other
people he used other arguments that was
a great i thought a great display of
presidential leadership but you know
let's talk about what's really going on
here martha because our intelligence
community just came out and said in the
last few days that the kremlin meaning
putin and the russian government are
directing the attacks the hacking on
american accounts to influence our
election and wikileaks is part of that
as our other sites where the russians
hack information we don't even know if
it's accurate information and then they
put it out we have never in the history
of our country been in a situation where
an adversary a foreign power is working
so hard to influence the outcome of the
election and believe me they're not
doing it to get me elected they're doing
it to try to influence the election for
donald trump now maybe because he has
praised putin maybe because he says he
agrees with a lot of what putin wants to
do maybe because he wants to do business
in moscow i don't know the reasons but
we deserve answers and we should demand
that donald release all of his tax
returns so that people can see what are
the entanglements and the financial
relationship to that later has secretary
questions because so ridiculous look now
he's brain blaming she got caught in a
total lie her papers went out to all her
at the banks goldman sachs and everybody
else and she said things wikileaks that
just came out and she lied now she's
blaming the lie on the late great
abraham lincoln that's one that i
haven't ok honest abe honest abe never
lied that's the good thing that's the
big difference between abraham lincoln
and you that's a big big difference
we're talking about some difference but
as far as other elements of what she was
i don't know putin i think would be
great if we get along with russia
because we could fight isis together as
an example but i don't know putin but i
noticed anytime anything wrong happens
they like to say the russians through
our sheer zarnov it's the russians doing
the hacking maybe there is no hacking
but they always blame russia and the
reason they blame russia because they
think they're trying to tarnish me with
russia i know nothing about russia i
know i know about russia but i know
nothing about the inner workings of
russia i don't deal there i have no
businesses that have no loans from
russia i have a very very great balance
sheet so great that when i did the old
post office on pennsylvania avenue the
united states government because of my
balance sheet which they actually know
very well chose me to do the old post
office between the white house and
congress chose me to do the oppo so if
is one of the primary things in fact
perhaps the primary thing was balance
sheet but i have no loans with russia
you could go to the united states
government and they would probably tell
you that because they know my sheet very
well in order to get that development i
had to have now the taxes are a very
simple thing as soon as i have the first
way pay hundreds of millions of dollars
in taxes many of our friends took bigger
deductions warren buffett took a massive
deduction soros who's a friend of hers
to kumasi deduction many of the people
that are giving her all this money that
she can do many more commercials than me
gave her it took massive deductions i
pay hundreds of millions of dollars in
taxes but but as soon as my routine
audits finished i'll release my returns
i'll be very proud to the direction mr
trump we've got a turn actually a topic
of taxes we have a question from spencer
moss spencer
good evening my question is what
specific tax provisions were you change
to ensure the wealthiest americans pay
their fair share in taxes mr trump
you've two minutes well one thing i do
is get rid of carried interest the one
of the greatest provisions for people
like me to be honest with you i give up
a lot when i run because i knock out the
tax code and she could have done this
years ago by the way she's a united said
she was a united states senator
she complains that donald trump took
advantage of the tax cut well why didn't
she change it why didn't you change it
when you were senator the reason you
didn't is that all your friends take the
same advantage did i do what i do you
have provisions in the tax code that
frankly we could change but you wouldn't
change it because all of these people
give you the money so you can take
negative ads on donald trump but and i
say that about a lot of things you know
i've heard hillary complaining about so
many different things over the years
over shooting on this but she's been
there for 30 years she's been doing this
stuff she never changed and she never
will change she never will change we're
getting rid of carried interest
provisions i'm lowering taxes actually
because i think it's so important for
corporations because we have
corporations leaving massive
corporations and little ones little ones
can't form we're getting rid of
regulations which goes to hand in hand
with the lowering of the taxes but we're
bringing the tax rate down from 35
percent to 15 percent we're cutting
taxes for the middle class and i will
tell you we are cutting a big lake for
the middle class and i will tell you
hillary clinton is raising your taxes
folks you could look at me she's raising
your taxes really high and what that's
going to do is a disaster for the
country but she is raising your taxes
and i'm lowering your taxes that in
itself is a big difference we are going
to be thriving again we have no growth
in this country there's no growth if
china has a gdp of 7 it's like a
national catastrophe we're down a 1 and
that's like no growth and we're going
lower in my opinion and a lot of it has
to do with the fact that our taxes are
so i just about the highest in the world
and i'm bringing bringing them down to
one of the lower in the world
i think it's so important one of the
most important things we can do but
she's raising everybody's taxes
massively cirfairy clinton you have two
minutes the question was what specific
tax provisions we changed from sure the
wealthiest americans pay their fair
share of taxes
well everything you've heard just now
from donald is not true i'm i'm sorry i
have to keep saying this but he lives in
an alternative reality and it is sort of
amusing to hear somebody who hasn't paid
federal income taxes and maybe twenty
years talking about what he's going to
do but i'll tell you what he's going to
do his plan will give the wealthy and
corporations the biggest tax cuts
they've ever had more than the bush tax
cuts by at least a factor of two donald
always takes care of donald and people
like donald and this would be a massive
gift and indeed the way that he talks
about his tax cuts would end up raising
taxes on middle-class families millions
of middle-class families now here's what
i want to do i have said nobody who
makes less than 250,000 a year and
that's the vast majority of americans as
you know will have their taxes raised
because i think we've got to go where
the money is and the money is with
people who've taken advantage of every
single break in the tax code and yes
when i was a senator i did vote to close
corporate loopholes i voted to close i
think one of the loopholes he took
advantage of when he claimed a billion
dollar loss that enabled him to avoid
paying taxes i want to have a tax on
people who are making a million dollars
it's called the buffett rule yes warren
buffett is the one who's gone out and
said somebody like him should not be
paying a lower tax rate than his
secretary i want to have a surcharge on
incomes above five million we have to
make up for lost times because i want to
invest in you i want to invest in
hard-working families and i think it's
been unfortunate but it's happened that
since the great recession the gains have
all gone to the top and we need to
reverse that people like donald who paid
zero in taxes zero for our vets zero for
our military zero for health and
that is wrong and we're going to make
sure that nobody no corporation and no
individual can get away without paying
his fair share don't want to give our
country trump i want to give the chance
to respond i just want to tell our
viewers what she's referring to in the
last month taxes were the number one
issue on facebook for the first time the
campaign the new york times published
three pages of your 1995 tax returns
they show you claimed a 916 million
dollar loss which means you could have
avoided paying personal federal income
taxes for years you've said you pay
state taxes employee taxes real estate
taxes property taxes you have not
answered though a simple question
did you use that 916 million dollar laws
to avoid paying personal federal income
taxes of course i do
of course i do and so do all of her
donors or most of her donors i know many
of her donors her donors took massive
tax write-offs a lot of money a lot of
my write-off was depreciation and other
things that hillary as a senator allowed
and she'll always allow because the
people that give her all this money they
want it that's why see i understand the
tax code better than anybody that's ever
run for president hillary clinton and
it's extremely complex hillary clinton
has friends that want all of these
provisions including they want the
carried interest provision which is very
important to wall street people but they
really want the carried interest
provision which i believe hillary's
leaving it very interesting why she's
leaving carried interest but i will tell
you that number one i pay tremendous
numbers of taxes i absolutely used it
and so did warren buffett and so did
george soros and so did many of the
other people that hillary is getting
money from now i won't mention their
names because they're rich but they're
not famous so we won't make them famous
oh thank you can you say how many years
you have avoided paying personal federal
income taxes no but i pay tax and i pay
federal tax too but i have a right off a
lot of it's depreciation which is a
wonderful charge i love depreciation you
know she's given it to us hey if she had
a problem for 30 years she's been doing
this anderson i say it all the time she
talks about health care why didn't she
do something about it she talks about
taxes why didn't she do something about
it she doesn't do anything about
anything other than talk with her
it's all talk and no action in the past
and again bernie sanders it's really bad
judgment she has made bad judgment not
only on taxes she's made bad judgments
on libya on syria on iraq
i mean her and obama whether you like it
or not the way they got out of iraq the
vacuum they've left that's why isis
formed in the first place they started
from that little area and now they're in
32 different nations hillary
congratulations great job once you've
able to respond secretary clinton well
here we go again
i've been in favor of getting rid of
carried interest for years starting when
i was a senator from new york but that's
not the point here did you do it why
didn't you do it
because i was a senator with a
republican president oh really i will be
donna you could have done it if you are
an effective senator you could have done
it but you were not an effect allowed a
response she didn't interrupt you you
know under our constitution presidents
have something called veto power look he
has now said repeatedly 30 years this
and 30 years that so let me talk about
my 30 years in public service i'm very
glad to do so 8 million kids every year
have health insurance because when i was
first lady i worked with democrats and
republicans to create the children's
health insurance program hundreds of
thousands of kids now have a chance to
be adopted because i work to change our
adoption and foster care system after
9/11 i went to work with republican
mayor governor and president to rebuild
new york and to get health care for our
first responders who were suffering
because they had run toward danger and
gotten sickened by it hundreds of
thousands of national guard and reserve
members have health care because of work
that i did and children have safer
medicines because i was able to pass a
law that required the dosing to be more
carefully done when i was secretary of
state i went around the world advocating
for our country but also advocating for
women's rights to make sure that women
a decent chance to have a better life
and negotiated a treaty with russia to
lower nuclear weapons 400 pieces of
legislation have my name on it as a
sponsor or co-sponsor when i was a
senator for eight years i worked very
hard and was very proud to be re-elected
in new york by an even bigger margin
than i had been elected the first time
and as president i will take that work
that bipartisan work that finding common
ground because you have to be able to
get along with people to get things done
in washington thank you circle and i've
proven that i can and for 30 years i've
produced results for the secretary
we're going to move on to syria both of
you have mentioned that a lot of things
i think we should as a second trumpet
we're going to move on the heartbreaking
video of a five-year-old syrian boy
named imran sitting in an ambulance
after being pulled from the rubble
rubble after an airstrike in aleppo
focused the world's attention on the
horrors of the war in syria with a
hundred and thirty-six million views on
facebook alone
but there are much worse images coming
out of aleppo every day now where in the
past few weeks alone 400 people have
been killed at least 100 of them
children just days ago the state
department called for a war crimes
investigation of the syrian regime of
bashar al-assad and its ally russia for
their bombardment of aleppo so this next
question comes from social media through
facebook diane from pennsylvania asks if
you were president what would you do
about syria and the humanitarian crisis
in aleppo
isn't it a lot like the holocaust when
the u.s waited too long before we held
secretary clinton we will begin with
your two minutes well the situation in
syria is catastrophic and every day that
goes by we see the results of the regime
by assad in partnership with the
iranians on the ground the russians in
the air bombarding places in particular
where there are hundreds of thousands of
people probably about 250,000 still left
and there is a determined effort by the
russian air force to destroy aleppo in
order to eliminate the last of the
syrian rebels who were really holding
out against the assad regime
russia hasn't paid any attention to isis
they're interested in keeping assad in
power so i when i was secretary of state
advocated and i advocate today a no-fly
zone and safe zones we need some
leverage with the russians because
they're not going to come to the
negotiating table for a diplomatic
resolution unless there is some leverage
over them and we have to work more
closely with our partners and allies on
the ground but i want to emphasize that
what is at stake here is the ambitions
and the aggressiveness of russia russia
has decided that it's all in in syria
and they've also decided who they want
to see become president the united
states to when it's not me i've stood up
to russia i've taken on putin and others
and i would do that as president i think
wherever we can cooperate with russia
that's fine and i did as secretary of
state that's how we got a treaty
reducing nuclear weapons it's how we got
the sanctions on iran that put a lid on
the iranian nuclear program without
firing a single shot so i would go to
the negotiating table with more leverage
than we have now but i do support the
effort to investigate for crimes war
crimes committed by the syrians and the
russians and try to hold them
accountable thank you secretary there a
secretary of state with the so-called
line in the sand which i was and i was
gone i hate to interrupt but but you
were in contact excuse me total contact
with the white house and perhaps sadly
obama probably still listened you i
don't think i'd be listening very much
any more obama draws the line in the
sand it was
left that all over the world what
happened now with that being said she
talked stuff against russia but our
nuclear program has fallen way behind
and they've gone wild with a nuclear
program not good
my government shouldn't have allowed
that to happen russia is new in terms of
nuclear we are old
we're tired were exhausted in terms of
nuclear a very bad thing now she talks
tough she talks really tough against
against putin and against assad she
talks in favor of the rebels she doesn't
even know who the rebels are you know
every time we take rebels whether it's
in iraq or anywhere else would we're
arming people and you know what happens
they end up being worse than the people
look at what she did in libya with
gaddafi gaddafi's out it's a mess and by
the way isis has a good chunk of their
oil i'm sure you probably have heard
that it was a disaster because the fact
is almost everything she's done in
foreign policy has been a mistake and
it's been a disaster but if you look at
russia just take a look at russia and
look at what they did this week where i
agree she wasn't there but possibly
she's consulted we sign a peace treaty
everyone's all excited
well what russia did and with assad and
by the way with iran who you made very
powerful with the dumbest deal perhaps
i've ever seen in the history of
deal-making the iran deal with a hundred
and fifty billion dollars with the 1.7
billion in cash which is enough cash to
fill up this room but look at look at
that deal iran now and russia are now
against us so she wants to fight she
wants to fight for rebels there's only
one problem you don't even know who the
rebels are mr trump to say you're i
don't like assad at all but assad is
killing isis russia is killing isis and
iran is killing isis and those three
have now lined up because of our weak
foreign policy mr trump let me repeat
the question if you were president what
would you do about syria and the
humanitarian crisis in aleppo and i want
to remind you what your running mate
he said provocations by russia need to
be met with american strength and that
if russia continues to be involved in
airstrikes along with the syrian
government forces of assad the united
states of america should be prepared to
use military force to strike the
military targets of the assad regime
he and i haven't spoken and i disagree i
disagree i think you're a knockout isis
right now syria is fighting isis we have
people that want to fight both at the
same time but syria's no longer syria
syria's russia and it's iran who she
made strong and kerry and obama made
into a very powerful nation in a very
rich nation very very quickly very very
quickly i believe we have to get isis we
have to worry about isis before we can
get too much more involved she had a
chance to do something with syria they
had a chance and that was the line i
think aleppo is a disaster humanitarian
i think that it basically has fallen
okay it basically is fun let me tell you
something you take a look at mosul the
biggest problem i have with the
stupidity of our foreign policy
we have mosul they think a lot of the
isis leaders are in russell so we have
announcements coming out of washington
and coming out of iraq we will be
attacking mosul in three weeks or four
weeks well all of these bad leaders from
isis are leaving mosul why can't they do
it quietly why can't they do the attack
make it a sneak attack and after the
attack is made inform the american
public that we've knocked out the
leaders we've had a tremendous success
people leave why do they have to say
we're going to be attacking mosul within
the next four to six weeks which is what
they say how stupid is our country there
are sometimes reasons the military does
that psychologically i can't think of
any and we have look i have 200 generals
and admirals who endorsed me i have 21
congressional medal of honor recipients
who endorsed me we talk about it all the
time they understand why can't they do
something secretively where they go
and they knock out the leadership how
why would these people stay there
i've been reading now for weeks about
muscle that it's the harbor of where you
know between raqqa and mosul this is
where they think the isis leaders are
why would they be saying they're not
staying there anymore they're gone
because everybody's talking about how
iraq which is us with our leadership
goes in to fight mosul
now with these two hundred admirals and
generals they can't believe it all i say
is this general george patton general
douglas macarthur are spinning in their
grave at the stupidity of what we're
doing in the middle east i'm gonna go to
secretary clinton secretary clinton you
want to sod to go you advocated arming
rebels but it looks like that may be too
late for aleppo you talk about
diplomatic efforts those have failed
cease fires have failed would you
introduce the threat of us military
force beyond a no-fly zone against the
assad regime to back up diplomacy i
would not use american ground forces in
syria i think that would be a very
serious mistake i don't think american
troops should be holding territory which
is what they would have to do as an
occupying force i don't think that is a
smart strategy i do think the use of
special forces which we're using the use
of enablers and trainers in iraq which
has had some positive effects are very
much in our interests and so i do
support what is happening but i mean
what would you do differently when
president obama is martha i hope that by
the time i arrive everything i hope by
the time i am president that we will
have pushed isis out of iraq i do think
that there is a good chance that we can
take mosul and you know donald says he
knows more about isis and the generals
no he doesn't
there are a lot of very important
planning going on and some of it is to
signal to the sunnis in the area as well
as kurdish pesh merga fighters the
we all need to be in this and that takes
a lot of planning and preparation i
would go after baghdady
i would specifically target baghdady
because i think our targeting of
al-qaeda leaders and i was involved in a
lot of those operations highly
classified one's made a difference so i
think that could help i would also
consider arming the kurds the kurds have
been our best partners in syria as well
as iraq and i know there's a lot of
concern about that in some circles but i
think they should have the equipment
they need so that kurdish and arab
fighters on the ground are the principal
way that we take rock after pushing isis
out of iran thank you very much we're
gonna move on if you went over a minute
over and you don't stop her when i go
one second over it so it's really very
interesting question over here from
james carter mr carter my question is
do you believe you can be a devoted
president to all the people in the
united states begins for mr trump
absolutely i mean she calls our people
deplorable a large group an irredeemable
i will be a president for all of our
people and i'll be a president that will
turn our inner cities around and will
give strength to people and will give
economics to people and will bring jobs
back because nafta signed by her husband
is perhaps the greatest disaster trade
deal in the history of the world not at
this country it stripped us of
manufacturing jobs we lost our jobs we
lost our money we lost our plants it is
a disaster and now she wants to sign tpp
even though she says now she's for it
she called it the gold standard and by
the way at the last debate she lied
because it turned out that she did say
the gold standard then she said she
didn't say if they actually said
that she lied okay and she lied but
she's lied about a lot of things i would
be a president for all of the people
african-americans the inner cities
devastating what's happening to our
inner cities she's been talking about it
for years
as usual she talks about it nothing
happens she doesn't get it done same
with the latino americans the hispanic
americans the same exact thing they talk
they don't get it done you go into the
inner cities and you see it's 45 percent
poverty african-americans now forty five
percent poverty in the inner cities the
education is a disaster jobs are
essentially non-existent i mean it's you
know i and i've been saying it big
speeches where i have twenty and thirty
thousand people what do you have to lose
it can't get any worse and she's been
talking about the inner cities for
twenty five years
nothing's gonna ever happen let me tell
you if she's president of the united
states nothing's gonna happen it's just
gonna be talking all her her friends the
taxes we were talking about and i would
just get it by osmosis she's not doing
any favors but by doing all the others
favors she's doing me favors mr trump
but i will tell you she's all talk it
doesn't get done all you have to do is
take a look at her senate run take a
look at upstate new york or two minutes
is up
secretary clinton turned out a disaster
you have two minutes secretary clinton
well 67 of the people voted to reelect
me when i ran for my second term and i
was very proud and very humbled by that
mr carter i have tried my entire life
to do what i can to support children and
families you know right out of law
school i went to work for the children's
defense fund and donald talks a lot
about you know the 30 years i've been in
public service i'm proud of that you
know i started off as a young lawyer
working against discrimination against
african american children and schools
and in the criminal justice system i
work to make sure that kids with
disabilities could get a public
education something that i care very
much about i have worked with
latinos one of my first jobs in politics
was down in south texas registering
latino citizens to be able to vote so i
have a deep devotion to use you're
absolutely correct word making sure
that every american feels like he or she
has a place in our country and i think
when you look at the letters that i get
a lot of people are worried that maybe
they wouldn't have a place in donald
trump's america they write me and one
woman wrote me about her son felix she
adopted him from ethiopia when he was a
toddler he's 10 years old now is the
only country he's ever known and he
listens to donald on tv and he said to
his mother one day will he send me back
to ethiopia if he gets elected you know
children listen to what is being said
go back to the very very first question
and there's a lot of fear that in fact
teachers and parents are calling it the
trump effect bullying is up a lot of
people are feeling you know uneasy a lot
of kids are expressing their concerns so
first and foremost i will do everything
i can to reach out to everybody
democrats republicans independents
people across our country if you don't
vote for me i'm still want to be your
president president i can be for every
america lynching your two minutes is up
i want to follow up and showing that
donald trump actually said to you a
comment you made last month you said
that half of donald trump supporters are
quote deplorable he's racist sexist
homophobic xenophobic islamophobic he
later said you regretted saying half you
didn't express regret for using the term
deplore deplorable z to mr carter's
question how can you unite a country if
you've ridden off tens of millions of
americans well within hours i that i was
sorry about the way i talked about that
because my argument is not with his
supporters it's with him and with the
hateful and divisive campaign that he
has run and the inciting of violence at
his rallies and the very brutal kinds of
comments about not just women but all
americans all kinds of americans and
what he has said about
african-americans and latinos about
muslims about pows about immigrants
about people with disabilities he's
never apologized for and so i do think
that a lot of the tone and tenor that he
has said i'm proud of the campaign that
bernie sanders and i ran we ran a
campaign based on issues not insults and
he is supporting me a hundred percent
because we talked about what we wanted
to do we might have had some differences
and we had a lot of debates but we
believed that we could make the country
better and i was proud of that give you
a minute we have a divided nation we
have a very divided nation you look at
charlotte you look at baltimore you look
at the violence that's taking place in
the inner cities chicago you take a look
at washington dc we have a increase in
murder within our cities the biggest in
45 years we have a divided nation
because people like her and believe me
she has tremendous hate in her heart and
when she said deplorable she meant it
and when she said irredeemable there
irredeemable you didn't mention that but
when she said there irredeemable to me
that might have been even worse since
that she's she's got tremendous hatred
and this country cannot take another
four years of barack obama and that's
what you're getting with her mr trump
let me follow up with you in 2008 you
wrote in one of your books that the most
important characteristic of a good
leader is discipline you said if a
leader doesn't have it quote he or she
won't be one for very long in the days
after the first debate you sent out a
series of tweets from 3:00 a.m to 5
a.m including one that told people to
check out a sex tape is that the
discipline of good night it wasn't so
check out her sex tape it was just take
a look at the person that she built up
to be this wonderful girl scout who was
no girl scout by the way just so you
understand when she said 3 o'clock in
the morning take a look at benghazi she
said who's gonna answer the call at 3
o'clock in the morning guess what she
didn't answer because when ambassador
stevens certainly 600 times well she
said she was awake at 3 o'clock in the
morning and she also sent a tweet out of
3 o'clock in the morning but i won't
mentioned that but she said she'll be
awake who's got the famous thing we're
gonna answer i call at 3 o'clock in the
morning guess what happened ambassador
stevens ambassador stevens sent 600
requests for help and the only one she
talked to was sidney blumenthal who's
her friend and not a good guy by the way
so you know she shouldn't be talking
about that no tweeting happens to be a
modern-day form of communication i mean
you can like it or not like it i have
between facebook and twitter have almost
25 million people it's a very effective
way of communication so you can put it
down but it is a very effective form of
i'm not unprofitable swith you sorry
clinton does mr trump have the
discipline to be a good leader
no i'm shocked to hear that well it's
it's it's not only my opinion it's the
opinion of many others national security
experts republicans former republican
members of congress but it's in part
because those of us who have had the
great privilege of seeing this job up
close and know how difficult it is and
it's not just because i watched my
husband take a 300 billion dollar
deficit and turn it into a two hundred
billion dollar surplus and 23 million
new jobs were created and incomes went
up for everybody everybody
african-american incomes went up 33
percent and it's not just because i
worked with george w bush after 9/11 and
i was very proud that when i told him
what the city needed what we needed to
recover he said you've got it and he
never wavered he stuck with me and i
have worked and i admire president obama
he inherited the worst financial crisis
since the great depression that was a
terrible time for our country we have to
move along 9 million piece are contrary
5 million homes were lost
secretary 20 million dollars in family
wealth was wiped out we are back on the
right track he would send us back into
recession with his tax plans
secretary clinton we are moving to an
audience question we're almost out of
time we have
now there is gross mr trump movie night
2029 it is thank you very much both of
you we have another audience question
beth miller has a question for both
candidates um good evening perhaps the
most important aspect of this election
is a supreme court justice
what would you prioritize is the most
important aspect of selecting a supreme
court justice we begin with your two
minutes secretary clinton thank you well
you're right this is one of the most
important issues in this election
i want to appoint supreme court justices
who understand the way the world really
works who have real-life experience who
have not just been in a big law firm and
maybe clerk for a judge and then gotten
on the bench but maybe they tried some
more cases they actually understand what
people are up against because i think
the current court has gone in the wrong
and so i would want to see the supreme
court reversed citizens united and get
dark unaccountable money out of our
politics donald doesn't agree with that
i would like the supreme court to
understand that voting rights are still
a big problem in many parts of our
country that we don't always do
everything we can to make it possible
for people of color and older people and
young people to be able to exercise
their franchise
i want a supreme court that will stick
with roe v wade and a woman's right to
choose and i want a supreme court that
will stick with marriage equality now
donald has put forth the names of some
people that he would consider and among
the ones that he has suggested are
people who would reverse roe v wade
and reverse marriage equality i think
that would be a terrible mistake and
would take us backwards
i want a supreme court that doesn't
always side with corporate interests i
want a supreme court that understands
because you're wealthy and you can give
more money to something doesn't mean you
have any more rights or should have any
more rights than anybody else so i have
very clear views about what i want to
you know tend to change the balance on
the supreme court and i regret deeply
that the senate has not done its job and
they have not permitted a vote on the
person that president obama a highly
qualified person they've not given him a
vote to be able to have the full
complement of nine supreme court
justices i think that was a dereliction
of duty i hope that they will see their
way to doing it but if i am so fortunate
enough as to be president i will
immediately move to make sure that we
fill that we have 918 secretary clinton
work on behalf of our people thank you
you're out of time mr trump justice
scalia great judge died recently and we
have a vacancy i am looking to appoint
judges very much in the mold of justice
scalia i'm looking for judges when i've
actually picked twenty of them so that
people would say highly respected highly
thought of and actually very beautifully
reviewed by just about everybody but
people that will respect the
constitution of the united states and i
think that this is so important also the
second amendment which is totally under
siege by people like hillary clinton
they'll respect the second amendment and
what it stands for what it represents is
so important to me now hillary mention
something about contributions just so
you understand so i will have in my race
more than a hundred million dollars
putting up my money meaning i'm not
taking all of this big money from all of
these different corporations like she's
done what i ask is this so i'm putting
in more than by the time it's finished
i'll have more than a hundred million
dollars invested pretty much
self-funding mind we're raising money
for the republican party and we're doing
tremendously on the small donation 61
average or so i asked hillary why
doesn't she made two hundred and fifty
million dollars by being an office
she used the power of her office to make
a lot of money why isn't she funding not
for a hundred million but why don't you
put 10 or 20 or 25 or 30 million dollars
into your own campaign it's 30 million
dollars less for special interests that
will tell you exactly what to do and it
would really i think be a nice sign to
the american public why aren't you
putting some money and you have a lot of
it you've met a lot of it because of the
fact that you've been in office made a
lot of it while you were secretary of
state actually so why aren't you putting
money into your own campaign i'm just
thank you very much we're gonna get onto
one more question the pressure is about
the supreme court and i just want to
quickly say very quickly
i respect the second amendment but i
believe there should be comprehensive
background checks and we should close
the gun show loophole and close the
online loophole we have we have one more
question as long as we possibly can we
have one more question from ken bone
about energy policy ken what steps will
your energy policy take to meet our
energy needs while at the same time
reminding environmentally-friendly and
minimizing job loss for fossil power
plant workers trumpton absolutely i
think it's such a great question because
energy is under seized by the obama
administration under absolute siege the
epa environmental protection agency is
killing these energy companies and
foreign companies are now coming in
buying are buying so many of our
different plants and then rejiggering
the plant so that they can take care of
their oil we are killing absolutely
killing our energy business in this
country now i'm all for alternative
forms of energy including wind including
solar etc but we need much more than
wind and solar and you look at our
miners hillary clinton wants to put all
the miners out of business there is a
thing called clean coal coal will last
for a thousand years in this country now
we have natural gas and so many other
things because of technology we have
unbelievable we have found over the last
seven years we have found tremendous
wealth right under our feet so good
especially when you have 20 trillion in
debt i will bring our energy companies
back they'll be able to compete they'll
make money they'll pay off our national
they'll pay off our tremendous budget
deficits which are tremendous but we are
putting our energy companies out of
business we have to bring back our
workers you take a look at what's
happening to steel and the cost of steel
and china dumping vast amounts of steel
all over the united states which
essentially is killing our steel workers
and our steel companies we have to guard
our energy companies we have to make it
possible the epa is so restrictive that
they are putting our energy companies
out of business and all you have to do
is go to a great place like west
virginia or places like ohio which is
phenomenal or places like pennsylvania
and you see what they're doing to the
people the miners and others in the
energy business it's a disgrace times up
absolute describe well that was very
first of all china is illegally dumping
steel in the united states and donald
trump is buying it to build his
buildings putting steel workers and
american steel plants out of business
that's something that i fought against
as a senator and that i would have a a
trade prosecutor to make sure that we
don't get taken advantage of by china
and steel or anything else you know
because it sounds like you're in the
business or you're aware of people in
the business you know that we are now
for the first time ever energy
independent we are not dependent upon
the middle east but the middle east
still controls a lot of the prices so
the price of oil has been way down and
that has had a damaging effect on a lot
of the oil companies right we are
however producing a lot of natural gas
which serves as a bridge to more
renewable fuels and i think that's an
important transition we've got to remain
energy independent it gives us much more
power and freedom than to be worried
about what goes on in the middle east we
have enough worries over there without
having to worry about that so i have a
comprehensive energy policy but it
really does include fighting
i'm a change because i think that is a
serious problem and i support moving
toward more clean renewable energy as
quickly as we can because i think we can
be the 21st century clean energy
superpower and create millions of new
jobs and businesses but i also want to
be sure that we don't leave people
behind that's why i'm the only candidate
from the very beginning of this campaign
who had a plan to help us revitalize
coal country because those coal miners
and their fathers and their grandfathers
they dug that coal out a lot of them
lost their lives they were injured but
they turned the lights on and they
powered our factories i don't want to
walk away from them so we've got to do
something for them but the price of coal
is down worldwide so we have to look at
this comprehensively so it's exactly
what i have proposed i hope you will go
to hillary we have entire policy
audience course we've sneaked in one
more question and it comes from carl
becker my question to both of you is
regardless of the current rhetoric would
either of you name one positive thing
that you respect in one another
with the trump don't you like to go
first well i i certainly will because i
think that's a very fair and important
question look i respect his children his
children are incredibly able and devoted
and i think that says a lot about donald
i don't agree with nearly anything else
he says or does but i do respect that
and i think that is something that as a
mother and a grandmother is very
important to me so i believe that this
election has become in part so so
conflict oriented so intense because
there's a lot at stake this is not an
ordinary time and this is not an
ordinary election we are going to be
choosing a president who will set policy
for not just four or eight years but
because of some of the important
decisions we have to make here at home
and around the world from the supreme
court to energy and so much else and so
there is a lot at stake it's one of the
most consequential elections that we've
had and that's why i've tried to put
forth specific policies and plans trying
to get it off of the personal and put it
on to what it is i want to do as
president and that's why i hope people
will check on that for themselves so
that they can see that yes i've spent 30
years actually maybe a little more
working to help kids and families and i
want to take all that experience to the
white house and do that every single day
mr trump well i consider her statement
about my children to be a very nice
compliment i don't know if it was meant
to be a compliment but it is a great i'm
very proud of my children and they've
done a wonderful job and they've been
wonderful wonderful kids so i consider
that a compliment i will say this about
hillary she doesn't quit she doesn't
give up i respect that i tell it like it
she's a fighter i disagree with much of
what she's fighting for i do disagree
with her judgment and many cases but she
does fight hard and she doesn't quit and
she doesn't give up and i consider that
to be a very good trait thanks to both
of you the university here this
concludes the town hall meeting our
thanks to the candidates the commission
washington university and to everybody
who watched please tune in on october
19th for the final presidential debate
that will take place at the university
of nevada las vegas good night everyone